docs/source/advanced/record_descriptors.rst, before:

Record Descriptors
==================

Most output generated by Dissect tools takes the form of
:ref:`records <overview/index:records>`.

To generate records in Dissect yourself, you can create your own records by defining your own
record descriptor:

.. code-block:: python

    FirewallRecord = TargetRecordDescriptor(
        "application/firewall",
        [
            ("datetime", "ts"),
            ("net.ipaddress", "ip"),
            ("uint16", "port"),
            ("string", "protocol"),
        ],
    )

A record is composed of various :ref:`field types <advanced/plugins:records>`.

The ``TargetRecordDescriptor`` will add basic target information to complete your record.
You can now generate records by filling the structure like this:

.. code-block:: python

    firewall_record = FirewallRecord(
        ts=time.time(),
        ip="0.0.0.0",
        port=8080,
        protocol="tcp",
        _target=t
    )


Target related information like hostname and domain will be automatically added if you provide your target
by setting the ``_target`` field. There are some default record descriptors extending 
``TargetRecordDescriptor`` available for common scenarios:

+--------------------------+--------------------+
| Record Descriptor        | Additional Fields  |
+==========================+====================+
| ChildTargetRecord        | * type (string)    |
|                          | * path (path)      |
+--------------------------+--------------------+
| UnixUserRecord           | * name (string)    | 
|                          | * passwd (string)  | 
|                          | * uid (varint)     | 
|                          | * gid (varint)     | 
|                          | * gecos (string)   | 
|                          | * home (path)      | 
|                          | * shell (string)   | 
|                          | * source (string)  | 
+--------------------------+--------------------+
| WindowsUserRecord        | * sid (string)     |
|                          | * name (string)    |
|                          | * home (path)      |
+--------------------------+--------------------+


If you create your own record descriptor, it is often practical to use existing ones as a basis.
This helps to keep the naming uniform. To extend existing record descriptors use
``create_extended_descriptor()``.

For instance, to create a record descriptor for browser downloads you could use:

.. code-block:: python

    Descriptor = create_extended_descriptor([UserRecordDescriptorExtension])
    
    DownloadRecord = Descriptor(
        "browser/download",  [
            ("uri", "url"),
            ("filesize", "size"),
        ]
    )

You can now combine data from several sources in one record:

.. code-block:: python

    DownloadRecord(
        url="http://example.com/download.zip",
        size=123,
        _target=t,
        _user=u
    )

Note that `source fields` from the extended record descriptors are provided using keywords starting with
an underscore.

It is also possible to use multiple existing record descriptor extensions as the basis of your new
descriptor:

.. code-block:: python

    UserRegistryRecordDescriptor = create_extended_descriptor(
        [
            RegistryRecordDescriptorExtension,
            UserRecordDescriptorExtension,
        ]
    )


The following record descriptor extensions are available:

+------------------------------------+--------------------+--------------+
| Record Descriptor Extension        | Fields             | Source Field |
+====================================+====================+==============+
| RegistryRecordDescriptorExtension  | * regf_hive_path   | _key         |
|                                    | * regf_key_path    |              |
+------------------------------------+--------------------+--------------+
| TargetRecordDescriptorExtension    | * domain           | _target      |
|                                    | * hostname         |              |
+------------------------------------+--------------------+--------------+
| UserRecordDescriptorExtension      | * username         | _user        |
|                                    | * user_id          |              |
|                                    | * user_group       |              |
|                                    | * user_home        |              |
+------------------------------------+--------------------+--------------+


DynamicDescriptor
-----------------

The ``DynamicDescriptor()`` function returns a plain record descriptor with the provided types.
This function can be used if your plugin creates its own record descriptor dynamically but you still
wish to provide certain field types through the export decorator.

Let's say you create a dynamic descriptor with fields ``f``:

.. code-block:: python

    yield TargetRecordDescriptor("sql/table", f)(
        _target=self.target,
        **values,
    )
    
In this case you might want to communicate that ``f`` at least contains a digest type:

.. code-block:: python
    
    @export(record=DynamicDescriptor(["digest"]))

This allows other tools that are interested in records having specific field types
to check if your plugin function provides this.

Commit message:

Add a section about grouped records

docs/source/advanced/record_descriptors.rst, after:

Record Descriptors
==================

Most output generated by Dissect tools takes the form of
:ref:`records <overview/index:records>`.

To generate records in Dissect yourself, you can create your own records by defining your own
record descriptor:

.. code-block:: python

    FirewallRecord = TargetRecordDescriptor(
        "application/firewall",
        [
            ("datetime", "ts"),
            ("net.ipaddress", "ip"),
            ("uint16", "port"),
            ("string", "protocol"),
        ],
    )

A record is composed of various :ref:`field types <advanced/plugins:records>`.

The ``TargetRecordDescriptor`` will add basic target information to complete your record.
You can now generate records by filling the structure like this:

.. code-block:: python

    firewall_record = FirewallRecord(
        ts=time.time(),
        ip="0.0.0.0",
        port=8080,
        protocol="tcp",
        _target=t
    )


Target related information like hostname and domain will be automatically added if you provide your target
by setting the ``_target`` field. There are some default record descriptors extending 
``TargetRecordDescriptor`` available for common scenarios:

+--------------------------+--------------------+
| Record Descriptor        | Additional Fields  |
+==========================+====================+
| ChildTargetRecord        | * type (string)    |
|                          | * path (path)      |
+--------------------------+--------------------+
| UnixUserRecord           | * name (string)    | 
|                          | * passwd (string)  | 
|                          | * uid (varint)     | 
|                          | * gid (varint)     | 
|                          | * gecos (string)   | 
|                          | * home (path)      | 
|                          | * shell (string)   | 
|                          | * source (string)  | 
+--------------------------+--------------------+
| WindowsUserRecord        | * sid (string)     |
|                          | * name (string)    |
|                          | * home (path)      |
+--------------------------+--------------------+


If you create your own record descriptor, it is often practical to use existing ones as a basis.
This helps to keep the naming uniform. To extend existing record descriptors use
``create_extended_descriptor()``.

For instance, to create a record descriptor for browser downloads you could use:

.. code-block:: python

    Descriptor = create_extended_descriptor([UserRecordDescriptorExtension])
    
    DownloadRecord = Descriptor(
        "browser/download",  [
            ("uri", "url"),
            ("filesize", "size"),
        ]
    )

You can now combine data from several sources in one record:

.. code-block:: python

    DownloadRecord(
        url="http://example.com/download.zip",
        size=123,
        _target=t,
        _user=u
    )

Note that `source fields` from the extended record descriptors are provided using keywords starting with
an underscore.

It is also possible to use multiple existing record descriptor extensions as the basis of your new
descriptor:

.. code-block:: python

    UserRegistryRecordDescriptor = create_extended_descriptor(
        [
            RegistryRecordDescriptorExtension,
            UserRecordDescriptorExtension,
        ]
    )


The following record descriptor extensions are available:

+------------------------------------+--------------------+--------------+
| Record Descriptor Extension        | Fields             | Source Field |
+====================================+====================+==============+
| RegistryRecordDescriptorExtension  | * regf_hive_path   | _key         |
|                                    | * regf_key_path    |              |
+------------------------------------+--------------------+--------------+
| TargetRecordDescriptorExtension    | * domain           | _target      |
|                                    | * hostname         |              |
+------------------------------------+--------------------+--------------+
| UserRecordDescriptorExtension      | * username         | _user        |
|                                    | * user_id          |              |
|                                    | * user_group       |              |
|                                    | * user_home        |              |
+------------------------------------+--------------------+--------------+


GroupedRecord
-------------

A ``GroupedRecord`` holds multiple records and offers a flat view of the records.
Suppose you wish to record an event system that contains events with triggers and
events with actions. You could use a ``GroupedRecord`` to compose records reflecting
these combinations:

.. code-block:: python

    if action:
        yield GroupedRecord("event/grouped", [event, action])
    elif trigger:
        yield GroupedRecord("event/grouped", [event, trigger])


If two records have the same fieldname, the first one will prevail.

.. warning::
 
    Note that, this record type cannot be used to nest records. Nesting records is not
    possible.

DynamicDescriptor
-----------------

The ``DynamicDescriptor()`` function returns a plain record descriptor with the provided types.
This function can be used if your plugin creates its own record descriptor dynamically but you still
wish to provide certain field types through the export decorator.

Let's say you create a dynamic descriptor with fields ``f``:

.. code-block:: python

    yield TargetRecordDescriptor("sql/table", f)(
        _target=self.target,
        **values,
    )
    
In this case you might want to communicate that ``f`` at least contains a digest type:

.. code-block:: python
    
    @export(record=DynamicDescriptor(["digest"]))

This allows other tools that are interested in records having specific field types
to check if your plugin function provides this.
